---
layout: page
title: Week 3
---


During the third week of Software Engineering, we reviewed for the test that was coming up on the following Monday. We went over Iterators, Generators, and Iterables. So i assumed that test was going to be mainly about any of those three topics. Also, project 2 was due. My partner and I managed to finish a couple hours before the deadline. I was glad about the extension given by the professor due to the computers in the lab not working. If it wasn't for that extension we would have probably turn in our project late, and just because i had trouble with git and merging with the public test repo. For some reason it was not adding my files. The good thing that my partner helped me get it fixed and were able to turn it in by the new deadline. This project i liked very much. I am starting to feel more comfortable coding with python so by working on Netflix, it helped me boost my confidence for future projects. 

On Wednesday we had a guest speaker from Rackspace. He talked about The Cloud, OpenStack, Rackspace and how to start a server. The presentation was very interesting and very informative, specially since next week we will be starting on our group project in which we will host our web app on Rackspace.  I m looking forward for the group project and creating a web app. 

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: For any of you who like to watch movies about technology or movies about the lives of entrepreneurs who succeeded in technology, The new "Steve Jobs" movie is coming out in a few weeks. I cant wait for that movie. 
