---
layout: page
title: Week 7
---

In progress...

---
Week 6
---

This is the sixth week in Generic Programming. Every week we have learned something new and more advance. This week we had the chance to learn about count, reverse, pair, set and maps. The topics were straightforward and helpful for the last project, Graph. Project 4, Deque, was due on Tuesday but it was the kind of project were everyone was in the computer lab the day it was due trying to finish it up. That project was difficult but easier than Integer. I guess because we had already experience Integer and the style it had with a skeleton that looked that it would never end every time you would scroll down. What helped my partner and I, was that the deadline was extended one extra day again. So that extension helped us finish the project early on Wednesday and be more careful with all the details that the project required. We felt good once we turned it in.

We also had a guest speaker, but since students that are in the previous class with Downing and were present that day, are not require to stay and listen to the same presentation. So i was able to leave early. Now, all i have left is to work on project 5 and then just one more week before the last midterm.

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: Pair programming is very helpful. The last two projects would have taken so long to finish but with a partner, ideas from two people can help more if there was only one person working on coding. So if you have the chance to work with a partner, choose to work together with pair programming.

---
Week 5
---

Last week was very difficult for me. For the first time in this class, I spent at least between 10 - 15 hours in the lab working on project 3 every day, even on the weekend. The reason was due for having two projects from Dr. Downing due on the same day at the same time. So i was back and forth with my Software Engineering group and my partner from Generic Programming. The only good thing about that was that my partner in Generic was in the same Software Engineering group. So we were able to manage our time to contribute to one group and focus on the other when possible. But i do feel that so far the Integer project has been the most difficult project in this course. We literally had to decide to which project focus more so that at least one could be turn in on time. At the end of the day, we were not able to finish the project on time. The good news was that the project deadline was extended by a day. So i came back to school at 5 am to try to finish it and still were not able to finish it. That day i left at 1 am. I literally spent 17 hours straight at he lab debugging and implementing functions so that it could work. It was useless because we still did not finish. We ended up turning it 3 days late. Now that it was turned in, i started on project 4 Deque and still had to meet with my other group to see what i needed to do for the web app project. I was not looking forward to another week with a lot of things to do.

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: Taking two courses from Dr. Downing in the summer is not a very good idea. Try to avoid that. At least take one of his courses and another cs course. His deadlines are the same for every course he has. So it is very difficult to manage time.

---
Week 4
---

We had our first exam in Generic Programming. I was a little nervous at first. Started looking at the questions and they did not seem as difficult as i thought. They were very straightforward. Once I started answering, I started to question every single piece of code i wrote. We had the opportunity to have a sheet of notes for the exam, front and back. I did not even use the sheet. I just felt that i should have study writing code more and understand the concepts until I was able to explain it to somebody else 100%. For me, the first exams are always the hardest since i do not know what to expect. Now i know how the exams are and will focus in writing code for the final exam. 

Lectures were very helpful as usual and we were able to see what our next project was, The Integer. I saw the description and it seemed doable. Once i started to look at it in more detailed, i noticed it was going to take a long time to finish. What i like is that we get to have partners, so it helps with completing it on time and if I am stuck on a function or a piece of code, my partner can help me figure out what is wrong. That is the advantage of pair programming. We started the project on Saturday and we were just able to finish plus_digits. We knew that it was going to take us hours in the lab to finish the Integer project.

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: For Professor Downing's exams, it is very helpful to study by writing code. Every time after lecture code example about the material he went over to have a better understanding and when the exam come, be more prepared.  

---
Week 3
---

Generic Programming during the third week was about more advanced topics that i had never encounter before in other languages. For me, it was very difficult to understand it at first. I had to review extra hours and actually code to have a better understanding. Project 2 helped in regards to using back up containers. And throughout the rest of the week, we talked about iterators and the different types there are. It seemed that the 1st midterm was going to take a lot of studying from my part, especially since i had to study for two tests. 

During the third week, i was only able to make it to two lectures. I went on Monday and the Professor talked about containers and iterators. On Wednesday we had a guest speaker that talked about rackspace. For that day, i was able to leave early since the guest speaker was in the previous class giving the same presentation, so Professor Downing let people go home from the previous class. And on Friday, I just couldnt make it to class due to personal reasons. I really did not want to miss because of the exam on Monday, and i think it is always good to go to the lecture before an exam. Now I hope that the exam goes well and ready to start on project 3.

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: The best way to understand c++ is to practice programming at home even if it is just for a few hours. It helps understand how each topic works and it makes it easier for future projects.

---
Week 2
---


During the second week of Generic Programming, I learned a lot of new concepts about c++. Even though the programming language is very similar to C, I still have difficult understanding about pointers and references with the use of the asterisk and the ampersand symbols, so the lectures and the topics Professor Downing chose were very helpful. He goes in detail and explains everything very well in a way that  i can understand at the moment. Obviously, to fully understand a programming language is to practice on our own and see what the differences are and that is one of the things professor Downing recommends for us to do after every lecture. 
We also turn in our first project, collatz, and went over the second project about file dependencies. When i read the description for project 2, everything seem to make sense and it looked like it was going to be very easy project. Once the professor started talking about it in more detail, it seem that we actually had to use vectors and priority queues. The good thing is that the entire lecture was about project 2. We went over differences in queues and how to implement them, so it was a very helpful lecture. 

TIP OF THE WEEK: For anyone that is still learning how to work with github, like myself, it is very important to read and research about the commands that are used so that if there is ever a time where you accidentally delete someones files or do something you didn't want to do, you know how to reverse or avoid that in the future.  

---
Week 1
---

During the first week of Generic Programming, I learned a lot about C++. I learned about what to expect for the class and the software tools that we will be using during the semester. Everything is new for me. I have never used github or  program in C++ before, so this class was going to be hard to get used to. His teaching style is different from any other professor i have taken before here at UT. He likes to interact with the students and makes them participate in class. I am a very shy person. But I indeed like the way he teaches because it makes me want to study and review any material cover in class so that nex time i am called during class, i can be able to answer the questions. 

One of the new things I came across in this class is the use of TopHat. An online software that takes attendance by the use of our phone or any electronic device, which these days everyone has a phone. We also take quizzes through through TopHat and the answers are available to us once the quiz has ended with our score. I actually like how it works and think that it should replace the iclicker. 

The first week has ended and have 8 weeks to go. Hopefully the material gets easier as we go, but I have a feeling it will be the other way around.

TIP OF THE WEEK: Get involved using piazza. It is a great way to ask questions when in doubt about something we went over in class or any other topic.

