---
layout: page
title: Week 7
---

This was the final week in Software Engineering. No more projects due, no more quizzes and no more lectures. We had a week of just relaxation, of course we still have the final midterm but no more staying up late in the lab and no more deadlines. This past week we had another guest speaker. Very informative but his presentation, in my opinion was too short. We also had presentations on Wednesday and Friday about all the websites. My group was the first group to present on Wednesday. I was somewhat nervous because i really don't like speaking in front of audiences, but i do it comfortably when i have to. Everything went well. We added some funny moment to our presentation and overall i think we did a good job with our web application. 

The other groups web applications were really good. Every group had the same concept because of our requirements but the way the website was implemented on some of them, i wished that our group could have done something like theirs. Some teams added music to their site, other groups a video entrance. Some of those websites were really cool. I wish we had more time to improve ours to make it even better.  Overall, I really learned a lot about software engineering, working as a group with more than 2 people and using different tools for web development. I will benefit a lot from this course.

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: If you have the chance to take software engineering with Dr. Downing, do it. You will work a lot, study a lot but at the end you will learn a lot from his teaching style and the way he make you use tools for projects.

---
Week 6
---

During the sixth week in software engineering, we learned more about SQL in python, especially because phase two of the IDB project required us to build a database, so it was like a continuation from last week's SQL lecture. Also, those lectures helped a lot understanding how databases work using python code. In our group, we managed to figure out how to implement our database using postgreSQL. It is always difficult at the beginning because we need to learn the software tools that are required for the project on the fly. Once we got the hang of it, it was very easy. We were able to turn in our phase two project on time. 

On Wednesday we had a guest speakers from Atlassian. I really liked the topics they covered. Most of what they use for their work environment is similar to what professor downing wants us to use for our projects. For example, unit testing, continuous integration, a type of source control and other tools very similar to what our projects require. I was very impressed on how this class will help me be a better software engineer in future projects. Everything that i have learned to this point has been very useful and all the tools learned will be very handy in the future. For right now, we still have one more week of class, one more project due, presentations and then the final. One more week to fully give it my all to successfully complete my courses.

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: When there are guest speakers in class, it is very important to stay and listen and learn from the experts. Professor Downing chooses them because they use similar tools like us in the real word and will give us an idea how important they are in an everyday life of a software engineer. 


---
Week 5
---

Last week has been one of the most time consuming weeks this summer semester. Professor downing was right about taking both of his classes at the same time during the summer. His lectures are fun as always and we did not have class on friday due to the end of the first summer session and finals that day. It was a good break, but i still spent the entire weekend at the computer lab working on the group project. There are a lot of little things that are required for the project that takes time learning it. Setting up the server took me a long time, if it wasnt for one of my group members helping me out and going through every step one by one, i wouldnt have been able to finish it on time. Another group member and I are also in the other cs course from Professor Downing. So we were working back and forth on both projects, especially because they are due on the same day at the same time. It was very difficult to manage my time this week, espcially because i really want to do well on both projects. 

We turned in the project on time and right after that we started on phase II. It is a non stop class. We finish one project and we have to start on the other one right aways so that we can manage to have everyhting that is required on time, and so far, phase II is almost complete. Next week we will finish every detail on the project and do presentations on the final week.

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: If you are taking two classes from Dr. Downing in the summer, make sure you focus 100% on school and do not work. Also, make sure you start early on every project and manage your time. 

---
Week 4
---

Last Week we had our first exam. There were six questions and it was nothing but coding. I studied a lot for this exam. I practiced writing code, went over every quiz we had and every lecture notes. I did not know the difficulty of the test. When i opened the exam, I saw six problems and it looked doable. When i actually started coding, for some reason i started to doubt my coding because the functions that we need it to write, i really wasnt understanding them. I took the full hour and forty five minutes we had to complete the exam. I still left comfortable about what i had answered. One thing i do recommend is to study by writing code, writing functions and to understand every concept we go over in class. At least that is what i will be doing for the next exam we have. 

We also started the group project. Finding partners was not difficult since everyone was almost in the same boat as me. Every group member seems that they will do their part to have a good web application. So far every one has been working on it and contributing to the project. Im excited about this project because i will be focusing on web development after i graduate so this will be a good excersice for me. Im looking forward to the results on this project.

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: The exams are nothing but coding. A good way to study, is to practice coding and writing function about the material he goes over in class. That will help a lot for Dr. Downings Exams.  

---
Week 3
---


During the third week of Software Engineering, we reviewed for the test that was coming up on the following Monday. We went over Iterators, Generators, and Iterables. So i assumed that test was going to be mainly about any of those three topics. Also, project 2 was due. My partner and I managed to finish a couple hours before the deadline. I was glad about the extension given by the professor due to the computers in the lab not working. If it wasn't for that extension we would have probably turn in our project late, and just because i had trouble with git and merging with the public test repo. For some reason it was not adding my files. The good thing that my partner helped me get it fixed and were able to turn it in by the new deadline. This project i liked very much. I am starting to feel more comfortable coding with python so by working on Netflix, it helped me boost my confidence for future projects. 

On Wednesday we had a guest speaker from Rackspace. He talked about The Cloud, OpenStack, Rackspace and how to start a server. The presentation was very interesting and very informative, specially since next week we will be starting on our group project in which we will host our web app on Rackspace.  I m looking forward for the group project and creating a web app. 

TIP-OF-THE-WEEK: For any of you who like to watch movies about technology or movies about the lives of entrepreneurs who succeeded in technology, The new "Steve Jobs" movie is coming out in a few weeks. I cant wait for that movie. 

---
Week 2
---

My second week of class went by so quickly. We had our first project due on Tuesday and it took me longer than expected. But i feel that it helped me get familiarize with the tools that were required for the project, including github. I never used it before and now i feel more comfortable with it. We also went over new things in python, operators and iterators. Since i have taken courses that use python for the projects, a lot of the code we went over in class was not new for me, so those days were a little easier for me. 

Also, Professor Downing took more than half a lecture to go over project 2, Netflix. I like that because he explains in detail what we need to do, what files to use, what he recommends for us to do, and any other tips for that particular project. And even if he is going over the project he does not stop interacting with the students, which makes me be always ready for any type of question. 

Overall, this week was very satisfactory. Learned a few things about python and was called twice by the professor which is something i am still getting used to. 

TIP OF THE WEEK: Jott, Airchat app that allows users to send data and texts without a connection to the Internet. It uses Bluetooth and WiFi radios to create a closed network with other devices that are within 100-feet of each other. Source: http://money.cnn.com/2015/06/19/technology/jott/index.html 

---
Week 1
---

The first week of Software Engineering gave me an idea of how the rest of the semester is going to be. Professor Downing's teaching style is something that 
I was not expecting. He calls on students randomly to discuss topics that are in lecture that day. What I like about that, is the fact that Professor downi\
g does not make you feel stupid if you dont know the answer. Instead, he walks you through the problem and makes you understand what is happening. I really 
love that because when I been called and dont know the answer, after having that 1 on 1 discussion, i actually retain everything we discussed.

This class overall seems very interesting. I will get to learn a lot of new software tools that I have never used before. The work load seems heavy but I su
ppose it is because we get learn on our own how to use the tools and how to incorporate them into our projects. Even though every time I am in class I feel 
like if I am going to be called on, I am very excited for this semester and I am looking forward for the upcoming cool projects that we will be working on i
n Software Engineering.

TIP OF THE WEEK: It is important to read the material that we will be discussing during next lecture so that when you get called on by the professor, you ca
n actually answer back with ideas or with the right answer.
